# SQL injection

### Description from Portswigger Academy

SQL injection is an old-but-gold vulnerability responsible for many high-profile data breaches. Although relatively simple to learn, it can potentially be used for some high-severity exploits. This makes it an ideal first topic for beginners, and essential knowledge even for more experienced users.

From https://owasp.org/www-project-web-security-testing-guide/v42/2-Introduction/ OWASP Chapter 2 Rewrite needed and implementation to the test

Considering the security test for a SQL injection vulnerability, for example, a black-box test might first involve a scan of the application to fingerprint the vulnerability. The first evidence of a potential SQL injection vulnerability that can be validated is the generation of a SQL exception. A further validation of the SQL vulnerability might involve manually injecting attack vectors to modify the grammar of the SQL query for an information disclosure exploit. This might involve a lot of trial-and-error analysis before the malicious query is executed. Assuming the tester has the source code, they might directly learn from the source code analysis how to construct the SQL attack vector that will successfully exploit the vulnerability (e.g., execute a malicious query returning confidential data to unauthorized user). This can expedite the validation of the SQL vulnerability.


A successful SQL Injection attack requires the attacker to craft a syntactically correct SQL Query. If the application returns an error message generated by an incorrect query, then it may be easier for an attacker to reconstruct the logic of the original query and, therefore, understand how to perform the injection correctly. However, if the application hides the error details, then the tester must be able to reverse engineer the logic of the original query.

About the techniques to exploit SQL injection flaws there are five commons techniques. Also those techniques sometimes can be used in a combined way (e.g. union operator and out-of-band):

 - Union Operator: can be used when the SQL injection flaw happens in a SELECT statement, making it possible to combine two queries into a single result or result set.
- Boolean: use Boolean condition(s) to verify whether certain conditions are true or false.
- Error based: this technique forces the database to generate an error, giving the attacker or tester information upon which to refine their injection.
- Out-of-band: technique used to retrieve data using a different channel (e.g., make a HTTP connection to send the results to a web server).
- Time delay: use database commands (e.g. sleep) to delay answers in conditional queries. It is useful when attacker doesn’t have some kind of answer (result, output, or error) from the application.
